Hi everybody come back and back this lecture we're looking at Titans strep method.
So the strip method removes any whitespace on the left or right hand side of your string.
So let's take a look.
So let's assume that you have a program running on the web and asks you to further address.
So let's create our address variable.
And as always I have left out the equal sign.
And as always we have our opening closing double quotes and let's just say Our address is 101 Main Street.
OK.
And let's just print that out to our screen and see how it looks.
Ok perfect as you can see down here on the bottom left.
101 Main Street.
Nothing wrong there.
Now let's let's assume another user comes along and they enter in one or two main street.
But for some reason they've also added in some tabs at the beginning and end of the string.
And just to put this into a real world example I had a user once who couldn't log into our program because
at the end of their email address they were putting in an extra whitespace that are hitting the space
bar at the end of the e-mail address.
I don't know why they were just doing it but the error was on my side because I didn't write in the
code that picked up this little bit of extra whitespace and removed it from the e-mail address.
So it was my fault.
So this little matter we're going to look at now what have solved that problem.
But before we get to that let's have a look at what we get on our output.
So control and bait and here we are here down the bottom right down the bottom left sorry one or two
main street and you can see here that our tarps have been added in.
So obviously we don't want that going into our database or into our file.
So we need to remove this whitespace and that's where pipelines strip method comes in.
So at the end of address we have dot strip opening closing brackets and let's run that again.
There we go perfect.
All whitespace removed.
Very very handy.
So let's have a look at another example this time.
Let's assume that they have left the whitespace in on the left hand side of their address.
So just have been left here.
We can modify strip to just be strip as in left strip and let's run that again.
There we go.
No whitespace.
And again the same is true for the right hand side.
So let's just add in some whitespace first to make sure that it's there.
And print it out
and on the right hand side we should see some whitespace yet there it is there.
And let's modify our program again to remove the whitespace
runs again.
And as you can see no whitespace on the right hand side.
So a very very handy set up for a set of methods there.
And they are the strip method which removes all whitespace from your string the left strip method which
as it sounds removes whitespace from the left hand side your string and or a strip method.
Which removes whitespace from the right hand side of your string.
And the real world these methods are very useful to clean cleaner user input and combined with everything
that we've seen so far should help you to take user input strip it down clean it up and have it nicely
formatted in your database.
I hope that all of this made sense and I look forward to seeing you in the next lecture.
Thank you.